---
title: 100 Questions for Webmasters
date: 2026-02-01
excerpt: 100 Questions for Webmasters answered by me. List by mouseling.
layout: blog
tags: 
- blog
- personal 
---
Link: [Mouseling.net - 100 Questions for Webmasters](https://mouseling.net/100webmaster)
<dl>
<dt>1. Please introduce yourself.</dt>
<dd>On here, I go by Snail or El. Some who I interact with via email know my real name.</dd>

<dt>2. How long have you been making websites?</dt>
<dd>Officially since 2019 but playing with HTML since childhood.</dd>

<dt>3. And what got you into the hobby?</dt>
<dd>My grandfather taught me a lot about computers at a young age.</dd>

<dt>4. What kind of website are you most interested in?</dt>
<dd>Personal sites and blogs.</dd>

<dt>5. What's your workflow? Do you plan your websites out thoroughly or do you come up with the design as you go along?</dt>
<dd>I usually wing it, actually. I've tried making mockups but I can never stick to them.</dd>

<dt>6. Please link to your biggest inspirations.</dt>
<dd>I love artsy, creative, and uniquie web design.

- [Hillhouse](https://hillhouse.neocities.org/): One of my all time favorite websites.
- [The Doll Archive](https://dollarchive.neocities.org/): Discovered recently but I love their pixel art.

</dd>

<dt>7. What's your favourite part about making websites?</dt>
<dd>Creative freedom and learning new things!</dd>

<dt>8. And the thing you struggle with the most?</dt>
<dd>Ummm, being content with my work. It feels like I'm never done.</dd>

<dt>9. Do you keep the same layout on all of your pages? Or do you use different ones?</dt>
<dd>I use 11ty to maintain the same layout for some pages but I recently branched out with my newest update.</dd>

<dt>10. How confident are you with CSS?</dt>
<dd>Pretty confident!</dd>

<dt>11. Do you know how to correctly use &lt;dl&gt;?</dt>
<dd>I think so hehe.</dd>

<dt>12. What is your favourite HTML element?</dt>
<dd>I like &lt;fieldset&gt;. </dd>

<dt>13. If you're making a new web page from scratch, what is the first thing you do?</dt>
<dd>Most likely CSS and use :root to pick my color palette.</dd>

<dt>14. Do you know JavaScript?</dt>
<dd>I do, I took a few classes on it.</dd>

<dt>15. How about PHP?</dt>
<dd>Nope, not at all.</dd>

<dt>16. Does your website have a theme that you stick to?</dt>
<dd>It has a visual theme, yes.</dd>

<dt>17. Are you more focused on content or design?</dt>
<dd>A bit of both!</dd>

<dt>18. Do you own a domain name? If not, would you ever want to?</dt>
<dd>I'm the mayor of 'snails.town'</dd>

<dt>19. What do you think of nostalgia-focused or "retro" websites?</dt>
<dd>Very cool!</dd>

<dt>20. Is your HTML valid? Do you even check?</dt>
<dd>I hope so, I think 11ty checks for me...</dd>

<dt>21. What are your opinion on buttons and banners?</dt>
<dd>Big fan.</dd>

<dt>22. What do you think of button walls in particular?</dt>
<dd>Also big fan. <a href="https://thoughts.melonking.net/thoughts/every-site-needs-a-links-page-why-linking-matters">Linking is important</a>.</dd>

<dt>23. If you started over again, would you make something similar or completely different?</dt>
<dd>Probably something similar, unless I was making a new website in addition to this one.</dd>

<dt>24. Are you envious of other people's websites?</dt>
<dd>It's hard not to be, but I try not to compare myself.</dd>

<dt>25. What text editor do you use?</dt>
<dd>Visual Code Studio.</dd>

<dt>26. Why do you use that one?</dt>
<dd>I like the customization and it's very noob-friendly.</dd>

<dt>27. Do you host your image files on your web server, or on another host?</dt>
<dd>Always host on my web server.</dd>

<dt>28. This might not be relevant to you, but what's your opinion on the Neocities vs. Nekoweb debate?</dt>
<dd>There is no debate to me, I think both are great!</dd>

<dt>29. How much server space would you estimate your main website takes up?</dt>
<dd>Hmm, 150ish MB? *Just checked and it's actually 117 MB.</dd>

<dt>30. Do you keep local backups of your files?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I do.</dd>

<dt>31. Do you prefer simple or highly visual websites?</dt>
<dd>I like a bit of both.</dd>

<dt>32. Do you stick to certain colours? Do you do that on purpose, or is it your subconscious?</dt>
<dd>I always gravitate towards dark earthy tones or neutrals subconsiously.</dd>

<dt>33. Have you ever thought about quitting? Why?</dt>
<dd>Never. This hobby is soley for myself and I use it to relax and decompress. </dd>

<dt>34. Do you have many webmaster friends, or is it a solitary hobby?</dt>
<dd>I have some friends that I e-mail with but my circle is small.</dd>

<dt>35. Do people in your real life know about your website?</dt>
<dd>My husband and very close friends.</dd>

<dt>36. Do you update your website very often? How often is "very often"?</dt>
<dd>Ideally, I would like to update once a week but I typically do once per month.</dd>

<dt>37. And the overall design, do you change that much? Why or why not?</dt>
<dd>I have a tendency to re-work my entire website at least once a year. I can't seem to keep a design for longer than 6 months lol.</dd>

<dt>38. Is your website more you-focused, hobby-focused, or outside world-focused?</dt>
<dd>A bit of me with a large focus on hobbies.</dd>

<dt>39. Do you do web design professionally?</dt>
<dd>I do not.</dd>

<dt>40. If not, would you like to?</dt>
<dd>I would take on comissions, I have designed websites for others before.</dd>

<dt>41. Do you communicate with people by email very much?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I have a few email pen pals.</dd>

<dt>42. Some people reject social media and use websites as a replacement. Do you keep social media outside of your website?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I absolutely reject social media and have none outside of my website.</dd>

<dt>43. How about instant messengers? Do you use a mainstream one like Discord or Telegram? Or something like Matrix? Do you avoid them?</dt>
<dd>I use Discord but I mostly message with my husband and some friends.</dd>

<dt>44. Do you listen to music while you work on websites? If so, what kinds of artists?</dt>
<dd>I listen to youtube videos usually.</dd>

<dt>45. Do you keep everything you make on one website, or do you have more than one?</dt>
<dd>I only have one main website but I'm working on a simple resume/portfolio website for professional work. I also host my widgets on github pages.</dd>

<dt>46. On a similar note, do you keep to one topic on your site, or many?</dt>
<dd>Many topics!</dd>

<dt>47. Do you present your real self, or at least try? Or do you construct a persona on purpose?</dt>
<dd>I'm not sure. I prefer to remain as anonymous as possible but I'm sure my personality shows up in blog posts.</dd>

<dt>48. Have you ever made a good friend thanks to your website?</dt>
<dd>I've made some online friends thanks to my website.</dd>

<dt>49. Are you happy with the way HTML and CSS currently work?</dt>
<dd>I think CSS can improve a bit </dd>

<dt>50. What are practices that you think people should avoid?</dt>
<dd>Maybe these are basic but "empty" or unfinished websites, broken links, and not crediting your source. </dd>

<dt>51. What about under-utilised practices, or things you think people should do more?</dt>
<dd>Make your site responsive! It's simple I promise...</dd>

<dt>52. Do you use a lot of semantic HTML? Or are you guilty of generic structure?</dt>
<dd>I love and use semantic HTML.</dd>

<dt>53. Do you consider different browsers?</dt>
<dd>I should but I do not.</dd>

<dt>54. Speaking of, what's your preferred browser? Convince your readers why they should use it.</dt>
<dd>Use firefox! Firefox has great add-ons and devtools. It also doesnt use as much RAM as chr*me does for some reason. </dd>

<dt>55. And what OS are you on?</dt>
<dd>I switched to <a href="https://endeavouros.com/">EndeavourOS</a> after the official death of Windows 10. It's an Arch-based Linux distribution that's very easy to use.</dd>

<dt>56. Do you have a strong opinion on that, or do you just happen to use it?</dt>
<dd>Actually, I do! I dislike when people spread the word that PC gaming is difficult or impossible on Linux. It's very simple and I play everything perfectly fine, if not better. </dd>

<dt>57. Are your websites mobile-friendly?</dt>
<dd>Yes!</dd>

<dt>58. What are your thoughts on autoplay?</dt>
<dd>Meh, it's not my favorite but I usually just mute the tab. Sorry!</dd>

<dt>59. What are your thoughts on webrings? Are you in any?</dt>
<dd>Webrings are cool. I'm in a few, yes.</dd>

<dt>60. Do you have any web shrines? What do you like to see in that sort of page?</dt>
<dd>I have a half-finished Drakengard 3 shrine. I love when shrines are basically like fansites where I can read and learn about the subject, especially if it's brand new to me.</dd>

<dt>61. Are your websites "cliche", in your opinion?</dt>
<dd>I don't think so, I try to be unique and creative.</dd>

<dt>62. What is your ideal website? Are you striving for that, or for something else?</dt>
<dd>I don't have an ideal website, honestly. I'm not striving for that, I just want to have a space online to express myself and hoard the things I love.</dd>

<dt>63. Are you an artist? Do you draw or design your own assets?</dt>
<dd>I make some of my own assets and I like doing pixel art.</dd>

<dt>64. What are your favourite resource sites?</dt>
<dd>

- [sadgrl.online](https://sadgrl.online/)
- [petrapixel](https://petrapixel.neocities.org/)
</dd>

<dt>65. Is there a habit you just can't get away from no matter how hard you try?</dt>
<dd></dd>

<dt>66. What's your biggest advice for a new webmaster?</dt>
<dd>Just start! <a href="https://32bit.cafe/interactingontheweb/">Learn web etiquette</a> and don't hotlink.</dd>

<dt>67. Do you keep all your styling in CSS? Or do you hard-code some?</dt>
<dd>I do use some inline CSS...</dd>

<dt>68. What do you think of frameset layouts?</dt>
<dd>A little before my time so I'm unsure.</dd>

<dt>69. How about table-based layouts?</dt>
<dd>A little outdated but fine.</dd>

<dt>70. Do you subscribe to the ideas of "one-column", "two-column" and "three-column" layouts? Do you use any of these?</dt>
<dd>I typically like 2 columns, a main section and a sidebar. </dd>

<dt>71. Do you spend longer on the HTML or the CSS?</dt>
<dd>CSS, for sure.</dd>

<dt>72. Have you ever made a page with no CSS? It's useful for your thoughts.</dt>
<dd>No, I haven't</dd>

<dt>73. Do you ever find yourself making layouts with nothing to put on them? Or do you only make layouts when the need arises?</dt>
<dd>I only make layouts as needed.</dd>

<dt>74. Would you consider yourself a beginner? Or advanced? Somewhere in the middle?</dt>
<dd>I think I'm advanced-ish. A slight step above intermediate.</dd>

<dt>75. Do you have a habit of looking at the source code of websites you visit?</dt>
<dd>Yes, yes I do.</dd>

<dt>76. How did YOU learn how to make websites?</dt>
<dd>A mix of self taught by dissecting other websites and some online courses. </dd>

<dt>77. Do you ever force elements to do things they're not supposed to?</dt>
<dd>Yep.</dd>

<dt>78. Thoughts on floating elements?</dt>
<dd>I use them.</dd>

<dt>79. When you're sizing stuff, what do you use first? Do you use px, em, %, or something else?</dt>
<dd>It depends what it is but usually % is safest, I think.</dd>

<dt>80. Do you have a favourite font?</dt>
<dd>No, I like a variety. See <a href="/library/fonts/">fonts</a>.</dd>

<dt>81. Would you run a website with another person? How would that work?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I would run a fansite or webring/club with someone. I think it would be fine if one person hosted it and the other had to use git pr to update.</dd>

<dt>82. Do you surf the Web to find new personal websites very often?</dt>
<dd>Yes, all the time.</dd>

<dt>83. Do you bookmark other people's websites? How would you feel knowing someone else bookmarked yours?</dt>
<dd>I do! It would make me happy.</dd>

<dt>84. What do you want people to be most impressed with when they see your website?</dt>
<dd>I want people to enjoy the design!</dd>

<dt>85. Are you interested in technology outside of websites? Do you collect?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I love "devices". Some of my favorites (all modded) are: Nintendo DS, 2005 Classic Ipod, 2015 Macbook Pro, and my 2 e-readers. One for books and one for manga.</dd>

<dt>86. How often and for how long are you online?</dt>
<dd>Almost every day, at least 1 hour but sometimes all day.</dd>

<dt>87. When it comes to your website, who is your target audience?</dt>
<dd>Myself!</dd>

<dt>88. Have you ever been interested in XHTML?</dt>
<dd>Sure, I would have to learn it's benefits and the big differences between it and HTML5.</dd>

<dt>89. Do you program in general? Have you ever written a program for use with or on your website, not counting simple JavaScript?</dt>
<dd>I don't program really but I took a Javascript course and I've made a few widgets.</dd>

<dt>90. Speaking of programs that help you make websites, what do you think of static site generators (SSGs)? Have you ever used one?</dt>
<dd>Live, laugh, love <a href="https://www.11ty.dev/">Eleventy</a> &lt;3 </dd>

<dt>91. Do you keep a hitcounter? Why or why not?</dt>
<dd>No, I do not care for them.</dd>

<dt>92. Do you frequent forums? Which ones?</dt>
<dd>Not really.</dd>

<dt>93. Do you write your page content directly into the editor, or do you prepare it elsewhere, like a text document or a Word document?</dt>
<dd>I write content directly in the editor so I can see it update live.</dd>

<dt>94. Do you think you appear cool to others? A more accurate answer now: do other people ever say you're cool?</dt>
<dd>No hehe.</dd>

<dt>95. Are you embarrassed of your old work? Have you ever deleted everything out of shame?</dt>
<dd>Not really, I find it nostalgic. I wish kept more of it.</dd>

<dt>96. Would you close down your website if you couldn't update it, or would you leave an archive?</dt>
<dd>Leave it as an archive.</dd>

<dt>97. Do you reveal a lot about yourself on your website? Or are you more secretive?</dt>
<dd>I am very cautious about the information I share.</dd>

<dt>98. Are you willing to reveal who your best online friend is, and/or if they have a website?</dt>
<dd>I don't have one.</dd>

<dt>99. And do you optimise the images on your website?</dt>
<dd>Yes, I compress them.</dd>

<dt>100. We're out of time! How do you feel after answering 100 questions? ....other than exhausted.</dt>
<dd>This was fun, I enjoyed it! Thanks for reading. </dd>
</dl>

